                                            
                

                                       COMPUTER SCIENCE-101 PROJECT REPORT



Topic-POCKET TANKS( A 2 Player Game)

INTRODUCTION


We have made a 2 player game using graphics available in simplecpp.This game
 consists of 2 tanks each controlled by a player.
A player can control his tank by moving left-right,setting the aim angle,setting the strength of the fire while keeping in mind of the wind speed which is randomized in each turn.



HOW TO PLAY THE GAME

Each player has 8 chances.In these 8 chances the player can move his tank maximum 4 times.There will be 5 type of bombs available to the player.out of these,4 will be special bombs and each can be used only once and 1 bomb will be normal which can be used any no of times. 
When the game starts a window opens  showing various options like play,instructions,quit.
Instructions will show the general instructions to play the game.
Choosing Play will open the game screen.
Player 1 turn:
The program asks if you want to move your tank.If yes is pressed then player can move the tank either left or right by pressing A or D keys respectively(only once in each turn-max 4 times in a game).
Then 5 buttons will appear for 5 different types of bomb with a short description of each bomb.
After selecting the bomb the player will set its fire angle by clicking on the canvas.The tank gun will rotate in the direction of click.After setting the angle, the player needs to press “set” button on screen.Then a sterength meter appears in which clicking on the button at various positions will set the strength of the fire(the player can do it as many time as he wants).Once the strength is final,on clicking “fire”,a bomb will be fired.If a special bomb is selected,then on pressing “s” key  the bomb will perform its speciality.
If the bomb hits the other tank,score of player1 will be added accordingly.Then turn for player 2 comes and same things happen .The player with better score wins the game.




Description of bombs:
1.Fast-On pressing “s” in mid air,shoots tangential to its direction
2.Split-On pressing “s” in mid air,the bomb breaks into 3 small bombs and each bomb continues its own path.(this bomb will earn the player extra points)
3.Fall-On pressing “s” in mid air,the bomb will fall vertically.
4.Return-On pressing “s” in mid air,it changes its direction and backfires
5.Normal-This is just a normal bomb.




SMALL DESCRIPTIONS OF FUNCTIONS USED:


1.addbuttoncolour,addtextcolour,addcolour-
		Used to colour rectangles,text,polygons in various places in the code.
2.checkbound-
		used to check whether ball is inside the playing area and doesnt hit the wall.
3.checkwindstrength-
		allots colour to the wind arrow depending upon wind strength.
4.inside-
		checks whetherbomb has entered inside enemy tank.
5.move-
		used to move the tank(4 times per player).
6.rotate-
		one of the most important functions,it rotates the gun of the tank and returns the unit 		vector in the direction setted.
7.shoot-
		another important function,used to shoot all the bombs considering the wind ,sets 		strength and returns the score.
8.button struct-
		creates all the buttons with text in it and also colours it.It has member functions
		which also check if click was inside the button or not.
9.main program-
		calls all the functions according to need and player's chance.

ALGORITHMS

1.Tank Move-moves the tank just by a fixed distance.

2.Strength meter-works on x-coordinate,more the x coordinate of the click,the greater will be the speed of the bomb,and colour will be more reddish.

3.Superspeed bomb-when “s”  pressed,the y coordinate(vy) has been stopped to increase.
So the bomb goes tangential(no gravity).

4.Split bomb-when “s” pressed,created three new bombs created at that point,out of which one has greater velocity than previous,one has the same, one has slower.

5.Fall bomb-when “s” pressed,the horizontal component made 0,so falls vertically.

6.Return bomb-when “s” pressed,the horizontal velocity is made negative to return the bomb.

7.Moving gun of tank-when the function is called it takes the click from the user .Then it calculates 			the unit vector along the line joining centre bottom line of  the gun  say 				dx,dy.then its perpendicular vector will be -dy,dx.And the distance of the first 			coordinate of the gun is known along the perpendicular vector.hence the final 			coordinate of the tank can be evaluated.so the final gun is made along the line 			the user click.

8.variable winds-this is done by using time function and multiples with winds generated by random func,so that each time a different wind appears.




Project by-


Harshank Agarwal(12D170016,Energy Science)
Akhil Manepalli(12D170002,Energy Science)
Pratham Desai(12D170001,Energy Science)
Ch. Shravan Reddy(12D170026,Energy Science)

Credits-

Google (for finding colour code)
Friends(Pranjal,Ravi,Piyush,Kunal-for playing the game and finding few bugs)


                        

                                                                 THE END
